Artist Reference File
----------------------

mbId: 
allMusicId: 
name: 
biography:
    Metallica is an American heavy metal band. The band was formed in 1981 in Los An
    geles by vocalist and guitarist James Hetfield and drummer Lars Ulrich, and has 
    been based in San Francisco for most of its career. The band's fast tempos, inst
    rumentals and aggressive musicianship made them one of the founding "big four" b
    ands of thrash metal, alongside Megadeth, Anthrax and Slayer. Metallica's curren
    t lineup comprises founding members and primary songwriters Hetfield and Ulrich,
     longtime lead guitarist Kirk Hammett, and bassist Robert Trujillo. Guitarist Da
    ve Mustaine, who formed Megadeth after being fired from Metallica, and bassists 
    Ron McGovney, Cliff Burton and Jason Newsted are former members of the band. 
Me
    tallica first found commercial success with the release of its third album, Mast
    er of Puppets (1986), which is cited as one of the heaviest metal albums and the
     band's best work. The band's next album, ...And Justice for All (1988), gave Me
    tallica its first Grammy Award nomination. Its fifth album, Metallica (1991), wa
    s the band's first not to root predominantly in thrash metal; it appealed to a m
    ore mainstream audience, achieving substantial commercial success and selling mo
    re than 16 million copies in the United States to date, making it the best-selli
    ng album of the SoundScan era. After experimenting with different genres and dir
    ections in subsequent releases, Metallica returned to its thrash metal roots wit
    h the release of its ninth album, Death Magnetic (2008), which drew similar prai
    se to that of the band's earlier albums. The band's eleventh and most recent alb
    um, 72 Seasons, was released in 2023. 
In 2000, Metallica led the case against t
    he peer-to-peer file sharing service Napster, in which the band and several othe
    r artists filed lawsuits against the service for sharing their copyright-protect
    ed material without consent, eventually reaching a settlement. Metallica was the
     subject of the acclaimed 2004 documentary film Metallica: Some Kind of Monster,
     which documented the troubled production of the band's eighth album, St. Anger 
    (2003), and the internal struggles within the band at the time. In 2009, Metalli
    ca was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The band co-wrote the scree
    nplay for and starred alongside Dane DeHaan in the 2013 concert film Metallica: 
    Through the Never, in which the band performed live against a fictional thriller
     storyline. 
Metallica has released eleven studio albums, four live albums (incl
    uding two performances with the San Francisco Symphony), twelve video albums, on
    e cover album, two extended plays, thirty-seven singles and thirty-nine music vi
    deos. The band has won nine Grammy Awards from twenty-three nominations, and had
     six consecutive studio albums (from Metallica through Hardwired... to Self-Dest
    ruct (2016)) debut at number one on the Billboard 200. Metallica ranks as one of
     the most commercially successful bands of all time, having sold more than 125 m
    illion albums worldwide as of 2018. Metallica has been listed as one of the grea
    test artists of all time by magazines such as Rolling Stone, which ranked the ba
    nd in 61st place on its list of 100 greatest artists of all time. As of 2017, Me
    tallica is the third-best-selling music artist since Nielsen SoundScan began tra
    cking sales in 1991, selling 58 million albums in the United States.
discography: (N=0)
genres: (N=0)
styles: (N=0)
moods: (N=0)
yearsActive: 
formed: 
born: 
died: 
disbanded: 
extraFanarts: (N=0)
