Artist Reference File
----------------------

mbId: 
allMusicId: 
name: 
biography:
    Metallica is an American heavy metal band. The band was formed in 1981 in Los An
    geles by vocalist and guitarist James Hetfield and drummer Lars Ulrich, and has 
    been based in San Francisco for most of its career. The band's fast tempos, inst
    rumentals and aggressive musicianship made them one of the founding "big four" b
    ands of thrash metal, alongside Megadeth, Anthrax and Slayer. Metallica's curren
    t lineup comprises founding members and primary songwriters Hetfield and Ulrich,
     longtime lead guitarist Kirk Hammett, and bassist Robert Trujillo. Guitarist Da
    ve Mustaine, who formed Megadeth after being fired from the band, and bassists R
    on McGovney, Cliff Burton and Jason Newsted are former members of the band. 
Met
    allica first found commercial success with the release of its third album, Maste
    r of Puppets (1986), which is cited as one of the heaviest metal albums and the 
    band's best work. The band's next album, ...And Justice for All (1988), gave Met
    allica its first Grammy Award nomination. Its fifth album, Metallica (1991), was
     the band's first not to root predominantly in thrash metal; it appealed to a mo
    re mainstream audience, achieving substantial commercial success and selling mor
    e than 16 million copies in the United States to date, making it the best-sellin
    g album of the SoundScan era. After experimenting with different genres and dire
    ctions in subsequent releases, Metallica returned to its thrash metal roots with
     the release of its ninth album, Death Magnetic (2008), which drew similar prais
    e to that of the band's earlier albums. This was followed by the band's tenth st
    udio album, Hardwired... to Self-Destruct (2016), with its eleventh album, 72 Se
    asons, set for release in 2023. 
In 2000, Metallica led the case against the pee
    r-to-peer file sharing service Napster, in which the band and several other arti
    sts filed lawsuits against the service for sharing their copyright-protected mat
    erial without consent, eventually reaching a settlement. Metallica was the subje
    ct of the acclaimed 2004 documentary film Metallica: Some Kind of Monster, which
     documented the troubled production of the band's eighth album, St. Anger (2003)
    , and the internal struggles within the band at the time. In 2009, Metallica was
     inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The band co-wrote the screenplay 
    for and starred alongside Dane DeHaan in the 2013 concert film Metallica: Throug
    h the Never, in which the band performed live against a fictional thriller story
    line. 
Metallica has released ten studio albums, four live albums (including two
     performances with the San Francisco Symphony), twelve video albums, one cover a
    lbum, two extended plays, thirty-seven singles and thirty-nine music videos. The
     band has won nine Grammy Awards from twenty-three nominations, and its last six
     studio albums (beginning with Metallica) have consecutively debuted at number o
    ne on the Billboard 200. Metallica ranks as one of the most commercially success
    ful bands of all time, having sold more than 125 million albums worldwide as of 
    2018. Metallica has been listed as one of the greatest artists of all time by ma
    gazines such as Rolling Stone, which ranked the band in 61st place on its list o
    f 100 greatest artists of all time. As of 2017, Metallica is the third-best-sell
    ing music artist since Nielsen SoundScan began tracking sales in 1991, selling 5
    8 million albums in the United States.
discography: (N=0)
genres: (N=0)
styles: (N=0)
moods: (N=0)
yearsActive: 
formed: 
born: 
died: 
disbanded: 
extraFanarts: (N=0)
